---
type: news
name: Mt Garfield Recovery
---
Between August 28–30, Mesa County Search and Rescue conducted a multi-day recovery operation on Mt Garfield. Teams deployed from the trailhead to establish visual contact while a drone attempted to locate the subject on the cliff face. Operations were suspended shortly after midnight due to high winds and limited flight time. The following morning, teams reconvened to assess access points from both Coal Canyon and the base of the mountain.


On the third day, the team transported nearly 6,000 feet of rope to the summit with the intent to rappel to the subject. Unstable rock and unconsolidated layers made the descent too hazardous, so the team returned to the base to evaluate alternative access. Air assets were requested but unavailable, so rescuers ultimately accessed the subject from the base, climbing approximately 1,000 feet of soft dirt and mud using ice tools, typically designed for ice climbing. Minimizing carried weight was critical for both safety and efficiency.


A DJI FlyCart 30 drone, provided by the Colorado DFPC’s Center of Excellence for Advanced Technology Aerial Firefighting (CoE), played a key role in supporting the teams. The drone delivered three loads of climbing gear, safety equipment, and hydration over a one-way distance of one mile, reaching 1,200 feet above takeoff. Cargo was securely fastened  approximately 70 feet below the drone for precise delivery to responders on the mountain, reducing risk and allowing teams to focus on the technical climb.


Our sincere thanks to the CoE(@cofiretech) and Mesa County Sheriff’s Office Deputy Jose Iglesias for their support and partnership in making this mission a success. We extend our deepest condolences to the family and loved ones of the individual. Out of respect, we ask that comments remain thoughtful and kind.

