---
name: "Tiny" dog rescued off remote peak
---
Around 9 a.m. on January 2, 2025, Mesa County Search and Rescue (MCSAR) received a call to rescue a trapped tracking dog near Collbran, CO. The owners of the dog, named Tiny, advised MCSAR that Tiny had been tracking a mountain lion when she became stranded in the middle of a cliff face near the mountain’s summit 24 hours prior. Thanks to a GPS tracker on Tiny’s collar, the owners knew her approximate location, though realized it wasn’t somewhere they could safely reach her.

With Tiny’s approximate location known, the MCSAR team planned their rescue operations using the Colorado Team Awareness Kit (COTAK) to safely rescue her from the mountainside. However, the team quickly encountered challenging terrain, which slowed progress significantly. After some consideration, the MCSAR operations team determined that splitting the group into two teams would be more effective in finding a route through the many cliff bands that had halted progress toward Tiny’s location. A hasty team of three members, deemed Team 1, was sent to the east to try to find a break in the cliffs, while the larger group, deemed Team 2, attempted to find a gap to the west.

Over the next six hours, Team 1 carefully rappelled and climbed through the cliff bands, working toward the ridge top. They ascended several thousand feet from there before finally reaching the peak where Tiny had become trapped. After confirming Tiny’s location below, the team built a system to lower a rescuer down and retrieve her using a harness designed for dog rescue in technical terrain. At approximately 4 p.m., Tiny was raised back to the mountain's summit.

The celebration of Tiny's rescue from the cliff face was short-lived, however, as Team 1 had a new challenge: finding a safe route back to the mountain's base in diminishing light. Back at the base of the mountain, MCSAR operations team members were able to map out a different route in COTAK for Team 1 to follow. This new route took Team 1 across the other side of the mountain through snow-covered terrain, including multiple waterfalls that they rappelled off of with Tiny in tow. Due to Tiny’s diminished physical condition, Team 1 carried the dog for much of the trip.

As Team 1 descended the mountain, MCSAR moved their staging location to the north side to gain better access to Team 1. Once relocated, Team 2 made their way up the mountain on horses provided and led by Tiny’s owner. They brought essential supplies - water and food - to replenish Team 1. Once the two groups united, the MCSAR members swapped places, giving Team 1 a much-needed break as they rode the horses the rest of the way down the mountain.

Tiny was reunited with her very thankful owners around 10 p.m., marking the end of a successful rescue mission.

Every mission matters for Mesa County Search and Rescue, even if it’s Tiny.
